Norman Gortsby was sitting on a bench hidden behind the bushes in Hyde Park. It was a warm May evening. The sun had already set and it was rather dark, but he could still make out the faces of the people who were walking past him and hear the sound of their voices. He was a philosopher, and liked sitting in the Park watching people whom he didn't know. While he was wondering who they were and where they were going, a young man came up to the bench, gave a quick look at him and threw himself down by his side. The newcomer was well-dressed and looked like a gentleman. His face was sad and he sighed deeply.
"You don't seem to be in a very good mood," said Norman. The young man was silent. He only looked at Norman again and there was an expression in his eyes that Norman didn't like.
"I really don't know how it all happened." he began at last, "but I've done the silliest thing that I've ever done in my life." He spoke in a low voice, almost in a whisper.
"Yes" said Norman coldly.
"I came to London this afternoon," the young man went on. "I had a meal at the hotel, sent a letter to my people, giving them the address and then went out to buy a piece of soap. They are supposed to give you soap at the hotel but it's always so bad that I decided to buy some for myself. I bought it, had a drink at a bar, and looked at the shops. When I wanted to go back to the hotel, I suddenly realized that I didn't remember its name or even what street it was in. Of course I can write to my people for the address, but they won't get my letter till tomorrow. The only shilling I had on me when I came out was spent on the soap and the drink and here I am with twopence in my pocket and nowhere to go for the night."
There was a pause after he told the story.
"I'm afraid you don't believe me," he added.
"Why not?" said Norman. "I did the same thing once in a foreign capital. So I can understand you very well."
"I'm glad you do," the young man said with a pleasant smile. "And now I must go. I hope by the time it gets quite dark I'll have found a man who'll believe me like you did, and will agree to lend me some money."
"Of course," said Norman slowly. "The weak point of your story is that you can't produce the soap."
The young man put his hand into his pocket and suddenly got up.
"I've lost it," he said angrily.
"It's too much to lose a hotel and a piece of soap on the same day," said Norman.
But the young man did not hear him. He was running away.
"It was a good idea to ask him about the soap, and so simple," Norman thought as he rose to go. But at that moment he noticed a small packet lying by the side of the bench. It could be nothing but a piece of soap, and it had evidently fallen out of the young man's coat pocket when he threw himself down on the bench. Turning red, Norman picked it up.
"I just can't allow him to go away like this," he thought, and started running after the young man.
"Stop!" cried Norman when he saw him at the Park gate. The young man obeyed.
"Here's your piece of soap," Norman said. "I found it under the bench. Don't lose it again, it's been a good friend to you. And here's a pound, if it can help you".
"Thanks," said the young man, and quickly put the money into his pocket.
"Here's my card with my address," continued Norman. "You can return the money any day this week."
The young man thanked him again and quickly went away.
"It's a good lesson to me," Norman thought, and went back to the Park. When he was passing the bench where the little drama had taken place, he saw an old gentleman looking for something.
"Have you lost anything, sir?" Norman asked.
"Yes, sir, a piece of soap".
O. Henry, whose real name was William Sydney Porter, was an American short-story writer. His stories are still popular today. He was born in 1862 in a small provincial town. In his early years he tried many jobs, among which were several literary ones.
O. Henry's first story was published in 1899, when the writer was in prison on a false charge of stealing money from a bank. After he came out of prison, O. Henry became a professional writer.
O. Henry describes the life of the "little people": clerks, shop assistants and farm workers. His stories are mainly humourous and amusing, with the traditional happy end. Through the gaiety and humour of his stories, however, the hard life of the poor can be seen.
O. Henry died in 1910.
Miss Posie Carrington had begun life in the small village of Cranberry Corners. Then her name had been Posie Boggs. At the age of eighteen she had left the place and become an actress at a small theatre in a large city, and here she took the name of Carrington. Now Miss Carrington was at the height of her fame, the critics praised her, and in the next season she was going to star in a new play about country life. Many young actors were eager to partner Miss Posie Carrington in the play, and among them was a clever young actor called Highsmith.
"My boy", said Mr Goldstein, the manager of the theatre, when the young man went to him for advice, "take the part if you can get it. The trouble is Miss Carrington won't listen to any of my suggestions. As a matter of fact she has turned down a lot of the best imitators of a country fellow already, and she says she won't set foot on the stage unless her partner is the best that can be found. She was brought up in a village, you know, she won't be deceived when a Broadway fellow goes on the stage with a straw in his hair and calls himself a village boy. So, young man, if you want to play the part, you'll hate to convince Miss Carrington. Would you like to try?" "I would with your permission," answered the young man. "But I would prefer to keep my plans secret for a while."
Next day Highsmith took the train for Cranberry Corners. He stayed three days in that small and distant village. Having found out all he could about the Boggs and their neighbours, Highsmith returned to the city...
Miss Posie Carrington used to spend her evenings at a small restaurant where actors gathered after performances.
One night when Miss Posie was enjoying a late supper in the company of her fellow-actors, a shy, awkward young man entered the restaurant. It was clear that the lights and the people made him uncomfortable. He upset one chair, sat in another one, and turned red at the approach of a waiter.
"You may fetch me a glass of beer', he said, in answer to the waiter's question. He looked around the place and then seeing Miss Carrington, rose and went to her table with a shining smile.
"How're you, Miss Posie?" he said. "Don't you remember me — Bill Summers — the Summerses that used to live next door to you? I've grown up since you left Cranberry Corners. They still remember you there. Eliza Perry told me to see you in the city while I was here. You know Eliza married Benny Stanfield, and she says —"
"I say", interrupted Miss Carrington brightly, "Eliza Perry married. She used to be so stout and plain." "Married in June," smiled the gossip. "Old Mrs Blither^ sold her place to Captain Spooner; the youngest Waters girl ran away with a music teacher."
"Oh!" Miss Carrington cried out. "Why, you people, excuse me a while — this is an old friend of mine — Mr — what was it? Yes, Mr Summers — Mr Goldstein, Mr Ric-ketts. Now, Bill, come over here and tell me some more."
She took him to a vacant table in a corner.
"I don't seem to remember any Bill Summers," she said thoughtfully, looking straight into the innocent blue eyes of the young man. "But 1 know the Summerses all right, and your face seems familiar when I come to think of it. There aren't many changes in the old village, are there? Have you seen any of my people?"
And then Highsmith decided to show Miss Posie his abilities as a tragic actor.
"Miss Posie," said Bill Summers, "I was at your people's house just two or three days ago. No, there aren't many changes to speak of. And yet it doesn't look the same place that it used to be."
"How's Ma?" asked Miss Carrington.
"She was sitting by the front door when I saw her last," said Bill. "She's older than she was, Miss Posie. But everything in the house looked just the same. Your Ma asked me to sit down.
"William," said she. "Posie went away down that road and something tells me she'll come back that way again when she gets tired of the world and begins to think about her old mother. She's always been a sensible girl."
Miss Carrington looked uncomfortable.
"Well," she said, "I am really very glad to have seen you, Bill. Come round and see me at the hotel before you leave the city."
After she had left, Highsmith, still in his make-up, went up to Goldstein.
"An excellent idea, wasn't it?" said the smiling actor. "The part is mine, don't you think? The little lady never once guessed."
"I didn't hear your conversation," said Goldstein, "but your make-up and acting were perfect. Here's to your success. You'd better visit Miss Carrington early tomorrow and see how she feels about you."
At 11.45 the next morning Highsmith, handsome and dressed in the latest fashion, sent up his card to Miss Carrington at her hotel.
He was shown up and received by the actress's French maid.
"I am sorry," said the maid, "but I am to say this to everybody. Miss Carrington has cancelled all engagements on the stage and has returned to live in that — what do you call that pace? — Cranberry Corners!"
Archibald Joseph Cronin was born in 1896. In 1919 he graduated from Glasgow University where he took a medical course. After that he practised medicine for over ten years and gained a lot of experience of life.
Though Cronin was an excellent doctor, he hoped some time to take up a literary career. The opportunity to write came when his medical practice was interrupted by an illness. His first novel, "Hatter's Castle", came out in 1931. It was followed by a number of other novels. "A Thing of Beauty" was published in 1955.
Stephen Desmonde had returned home after several years at Oxford, where he had been taking a course of theology. Stephen himself did not want to be a parson and had only taken up the course because his father wished him to do so. He was fond of painting and wanted to devote his life to art.
Against his father's will he left England to study painting in France. On arriving in Paris he entered Professor Dupret's Art School. The extract given below is an account of his meeting with other students from England.
At one o'clock a bell rang. Immediately a cry went up from everywhere and all around the students began crowding towards the door, pushing Stephen forward against his will. Suddenly he heard a pleasant voice behind him.
"You're English, aren't you? I noticed you come in. My name's Harry Chester."
Stephen turned his head and discovered a good-looking young man of about his own age smiling down at him.
"I'll wait for you downstairs," Chester called out as the crowd carried him away.
Outside Chester offered his hand. "I hope you don't mind my speaking to you." Stephen, who felt lonely in Paris, was glad to find a friend. When Stephen had introduced himself Chester paused for a moment, then exclaimed: "How about lunching with me?" They started off together along the street. The restaurant they went to was quite near, a narrow, low-ceilinged room, opening into a dark little kitchen. Already the place was crowded, mainly by students, but Chester led the way through to a little yard and, calmly removing the card marked 'Reserved' from a table at the far end, invited Stephen to be seated.
Immediately a stout, red-faced woman in black ran out of the kitchen in protest.
"No, no, Harry ... this place is reserved for Monsieur Lambert."
"Do not get excited, Madame Chobert," Chester smiled. "You know Monsieur Lambert is my good friend. Besides, he is always late."
Madame Chobert was not pleased; she tried to argue, but in the end Harry Chester's pleasant manner was too much for her. She stopped arguing and offered the title-card for their inspection.
At Chester's suggestion they ordered tomato soup, steak and cheese. Beer was already on the table.
"Strange, isn't it," Chester said, "how you can always tell a University man. Philip Lambert is one too. After Harrow" — he shot a quick glance at Stephen — "I should have gone to Cambridge myself... if I hadn't given it up for art." He went on to say, with a smile, that his father had been a well-known tea-planter in Ceylon. His mother, now a widow, lived in England and was quite rich. Naturally she spoiled him by giving him too much money. He had been in Paris eighteen) months.
"It's a lot of fun," he said finally.
They had finished their coffee. People were beginning to leave.
"Your friend Lambert doesn't seem to be coming," Stephen said at last, to break the silence.
Chester laughed, "You never quite know when he'll turn up. His habits are quite irregular."
After a few more remarks about Philip Lambert, Harry Chester suddenly sat up.
"Here's Philip now."
Following Chester's look, Stephen saw a slim man of about thirty entering the restaurant.
When he came over, he began taking off a lemon-yellow glove, meanwhile looking at Chester with amusement.
"Thank you for keeping my table, dear boy. But now you must be off. I'm expecting a guest at two o'clock."
"We're just going, Philip," Chester said in reply. "Look here, I'd like you to meet4 Desmonde. He joined us at Dupret's today."
Lambert took a look at Stephen, then he bowed politely as if appreciating the young man's tactful silence.
"Stephen Desmonde only came down from Oxford last term," Chester added quickly.
"Indeed!" exclaimed Lambert.
Holding out a small hand to Stephen, he said, "I am happy to meet you. I myself was at the House. You needn't hurry. I can easily find another table."
"No, no," said Stephen, rising, "we've quite finished."
"Well, then" said Lambert, "come to tea at my house one of these days. We are at home most Wednesdays at five. Harry will bring you along. Then we'll be two men from Oxford and one" — with a smile towards Chester — "who so nearly went to Cambridge."
The bill, quickly produced by Madame Chobert, now lay on the table. Since Chester did not seem to see it, Stephen picked it up and, in spite of Harry's sudden and energetic protests, paid.
